Newsletters: add 251 (2023-05-17) (#1114)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _includes/specials/policy/en/01-why-mempool.md

-->

Many nodes on the Bitcoin network store unconfirmed transactions in an
in-memory pool, or "mempool." This cache is a very useful resource
each node and, coupled with their connections on the peer-to-peer
network, provides a censorship-resistant and private way of making
payments.

For an individual node, participating in transaction relay is a means
of downloading and validating blocks gradually rather than in spikes.
Every ~10 minutes when a block is found, nodes without a mempool
experience a bandwidth spike, followed by a computation-intensive
period validating each transaction.  On the other hand, nodes with a
mempool have typically already seen all of the block transactions and
stores them in their mempools. With compact block relay (fixme: 152
link), these nodes just download a block header along with shortids,
and then reconstruct the block using transactions in their mempools.
This amount of data is tiny compared to the size of the block (fixme:
stats?).  Validating the transactions is also much faster: the
signatures and scripts verified (and cached), timelock requirements
already calculated, and relevant UTXOs loaded from disk if necessary.

> The node can also forward the block onto its other peers very quickly,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The node can also forward the block onto its other peers promptly,
```

dramatically increasing network-wide block propagation speed and
reducing the frequency of stale blocks.

Mempools can also be used to build a "trustless" fee estimator. The
market for block space is a fee-based auction, and keeping a mempool
allows users to have a better sense of what others are bidding and
what bids have been successful in the past.

> However, there is no such thing as "The Mempool" - each node may have

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, there is no such thing as "the mempool"---each node may have
```

a different mempool. Submitting a transaction to one node does not
necessarily mean that it has made its way to miners. Some users find
this uncertainty frustrating, and wonder, "why don't we just submit
transactions directly to miners?"

Consider a Bitcoin network in which all transactions are sent directly
from users to miners. One could censor and surveil financial activity
by requiring the small number of entities to log the IP addresses
corresponding to each transaction, and refuse to accept any
transactions matching a particular pattern. This type of Bitcoin may
be more convenient at times, but would be missing a few of Bitcoin's
most valued properties.

Bitcoin's censorship-resistance and privacy come from its peer-to-peer
network. In order to relay a transaction, each node may connect to
some anonymous set of peers, each of which could be a miner or
somebody connected to a miner. This method helps obfuscate which node
a transaction originates from as well as which node may be responsible
for confirming it. Someone wishing to censor particular entities may
target miners, popular exchanges, or other centralized submission

> services, but it would be difficult to block anything completely.

Reviewer: In this context it might be good to point out that the general availability of unconfirmed transactions also minimizes the entrance cost for anyone to become a miner if they’re dissatisfied with the performance or conduct of the current miners.

> In summary, a mempool is an extremely useful cache that allows nodes

Reviewer 3: > a) receivers get notice of an incoming payment promise

I don't like to cite this as a benefit of mempool due to how frequently it misleads people into thinking there is some degree of finality prior to confirmation.

> b) senders and receivers can interact with these pending payments in order to reprioritize them via RBF and CPFP

Also won't mention this because you don't need a mempool to do these things.

> In summary, a mempool is an extremely useful cache that allows nodes

Reviewer 3: Eh, I suppose mempool is quite helpful in fee-bumping. Maybe I will formulate this into something like "the general availability of unconfirmed transactions helps create a transparent/public fee market. Users are able to see what other users are bidding in terms of fees, and attach transactions spending unconfirmed outputs to fee-bump via CPFP" ?

> In summary, a mempool is an extremely useful cache that allows nodes

Reviewer 3: Did a bit of rewording. I think most of this will end up in post number 2^ as discussed.

to amortize block download and validation, and gives users access to
better fee estimation. At a network level, mempools support a
distributed transaction and block relay network. All of these benefits
are most pronounced when everybody sees all transactions before miners
include them in blocks - just like any cache, it is most useful when
it's "hot" and must be limited in size to fit in memory. This leads us
to our first example of and reason for mempool policy: transaction
feerate, which helps nodes guess which transactions are most likely to

> be confirmed.

Reviewer: How is “transaction feerate” a mempool policy? Are you referring to the dynamic minimum feerate, the `minRelayTxFeerate` or something else?

Reviewer 3: I'm referring to the concept of feerate in general

Reviewer 3: Ok I agree with you that just the word "feerate" is not a policy. I've reworded the end of the post to be more concise as well. Now that we have a good idea of what the next posts will be, I think this is a good enough transition.

Next week's section will dive further into mempool policy and its uses
in protecting network resources, assisting in safer soft forks,

> avoiding denial of service attacks, and more.

Reviewer 3: (Not to strong-arm what the next section in the series will be)!

for confirming it. Someone wishing to censor particular entities may
target miners, popular exchanges, or other centralized submission
services, but it would be difficult to block anything completely.

The
general availability of unconfirmed transactions also helps minimize
the entrance cost of becoming a block producer - someone who is
dissatisfied with the transactions being selected (or excluded)
may start mining immediately.
Treating each node as an equal candidate for transaction broadcast
avoids giving any miner privileged access to transactions and their
fees.

In summary, a mempool is an extremely useful cache that allows nodes
to distribute the costs of block download and validation over time,
and gives users access to better fee estimation. At a network level,
mempools support a distributed transaction and block relay network.
All of these benefits are most pronounced when everybody sees all
transactions before miners include them in blocks - just like any
cache, a mempool is most useful when it is "hot" and must be limited in size
to fit in memory.
Next week's section will explore the use of incentive compatibility as

> a metric for keeping the most useful transactions in their mempools.

Author: It's unclear to me who "their" is in this final sentence.  I think the word can be dropped or it can be changed to something more specific (user's / miner's / everyone's).

loaded relevant UTXOs from disk if necessary. The node can also
forward the block onto its other peers promptly, dramatically
increasing network-wide block propagation speed and thus reducing the
risk of stale blocks.

Mempools can also be used to build an independent fee estimator. The
market for block space is a fee-based auction, and keeping a mempool
allows users to have a better sense of what others are bidding and
what bids have been successful in the past.

However, there is no such thing as "the mempool" - each node may
receive different transactions. Submitting a transaction to one node
does not necessarily mean that it has made its way to miners. Some
users find this uncertainty frustrating, and wonder, "why don't we
just submit transactions directly to miners?"

Consider a Bitcoin network in which all transactions are sent directly
from users to miners. One could censor and surveil financial activity
by requiring the small number of entities to log the IP addresses
corresponding to each transaction, and refuse to accept any
transactions matching a particular pattern. This type of Bitcoin may
be more convenient at times, but would be missing a few of Bitcoin's

> most valued properties.

Author: I think this is a fine description of one of the benefits of a decentralized relay network, and I don't think it needs to be changed, but I wanted to note that I've always felt that the strongest argument for an independent relay network is to avoid naturally privileging lager miners over smaller miners.  E.g., [this argument](https://gist.github.com/harding/7c6c5215a0aec8e0b8b186889def01d8)

Reviewer 3: Really good point, tried to incorporate this a bit.
